Ushio!
(gasps)
What?
Ms. Nagumo?
Huh?
You're alive.
What?
Young man, I don't believe
we have met before.
MAN (over PA): Good afternoon.
We'll arrive in Hitogashima shortly.
Hold on, Hizuru,
you're actually Ryunosuke Nagumo, right?
-Aren't you?
-(gasps)
HIZURU: How... How do you know who I am?
SHINPEI: Hitogashima lies
in the Kitan Strait in Wakayama City,
Wakayama Prefecture.
You can see Awajishima behind it.
It's about two square miles.
With a population of around 700.
And it's known for its Yomogimochi
and Salted Squid.
It's a small island
supported by tourism and fishing.
It's been two years
since I returned to my hometown.
What?
This view, I've seen it before,
but of course, I have,
this is my hometown.
More recently, though...
(gasps)
-(Hizuru grunts)
-Uh...
SHINPEI: How did I know
she's Ryunosuke Nagumo?
(chains rattling)
-(gasps)
-MIO: Hey!
Welcome home, Shin-chan!
Hope you had a nice trip!
(chuckles)
SHINPEI: Mio.
Watch out, Mio!
(brakes squeal)
What are you doing, Shin-chan?
It's just... What am I doing?
-SOU: Shinpei!
-Huh?
Come get a hug!
(laughs)
-Ah, you finally came back.
-(gasps)
It's been a long two years.
Your hair got so long.
-Are you taller, too?
-SHINPEI: Thank goodness, everyone's safe.
-SOU: Oh, you're a real Tokyo boy now...
-SHINPEI: Wait.
...aren't you, Shinpei? Ooh.
SHINPEI: Why am I so happy about that?
Hey, Sou. Any idea why I came back home?
Wow, that hurts!
It's like you're not excited to see us!
Are you serious?
What do you mean, Shinpei?
Just... For some reason, I feel like
I was really worried about you guys.
He's almost a different person.
His hair. He grew it so long.
It makes him look older.
Uh, you think so?
(clears throat)
Ushio reached out to you, right?
You said so on the phone yesterday.
SOU: She was gonna beat
the crap out of you
if you didn't come back this year.
Sis said she'd punch you when she saw you.
(Mio chuckles)
-TOKIKO: She'd actually do that.
-(Mio giggles)
SOU: Come on. Shinpei did come back.
-USHIO: Ah!
-ALL: Huh?
(Shinpei gasps)
There you are!
Ushio!
ALL: She hit him!
(grunting)
ALL: Wait, she didn't.
Hm!
So, Shinpei, you're back now?
Back? Why are you surprised?
You asked me to return in your voicemail.
(grunting)
Don't act like
you're doing us a favor! What?
USHIO: You thought we'd still be here
after ignoring us for years.
Whoa!
She's so mad.
She's just frustrated,
because the beach won't stay clean.
-MIO: We just cleaned it up the other day.
-YAMATO: Who was that?
-Is that really Shinpei?
-MIO: But someone left trash there.
USHIO: Nope, a stranger.
Mio, go back to the restaurant!
MIO: Okay!
(ship horn honking)
Oh, what are you doing here?
Don't you have to go home first?
SHINPEI: Uh...
SHINPEI: No. No one's home today.
(bell chimes)
Oh, hey, Shinpei. You're back.
I am.
Yo! You look kinda manlier now.
Is that the Tokyo effect?
Come on.
(laughs)
Hey, Shinpei!
Are you back for the festival?
Yeah. I, uh...
Ushio, right? She said she called you.
SHIOMI: Oh! Did you make up with Ushio?
Well, not exactly.
They met at the port earlier.
SHIOMI: And?
(chuckles)
SHIOMI: Oh, no!
You two've been at war
ever since you went to Tokyo, haven't you?
Yeah.
USHIO: Uh, I'm hoping
this is Ajiro's number.
It's not that I want to see you
or anything,
but you should at least come back
during summer break.
If you ignore this message,
I'm gonna go to Tokyo myself,
and drag you back by the neck.
Anyway, later, Ajiro.
(phone clanks)
SHINPEI: She got my attention
when she called me Ajiro.
When I thought about why she called,
I remembered this strange dream
from the night before.
I don't remember what it was about,
but I remember hearing someone's voice,
I was scared that this island
would disappear.
(cicadas chirping)
I guess I came back
to make sure that everyone was safe.
HAMAJI: Wow, that's cold!
TOUDAI: Well, yeah. It's ice cream.
-HAMAJI: Which one should I get?
-AKARI: I wanna see, too.
-Just pick! They're gonna melt!
-Oh, hello, this one is mine, guys.
-Let me see!
-Would you hurry up and pick one already?
-I'll take the green tea ice cream!
-I said close it!
-Me too!
-Close it!
-I want one!
-Oh, roasted green tea flavor!
SHINPEI: Hi.
-Welcome!
-(kids gasp)
-Oh, Shinpei!
-Shinpei!
Been a while. You all got so big.
AKARI: Are you really Shinpei?
Huh? I, uh...
HAMAJI: Wow! You really came back!
Oh, it's just like Ushio said!
Ushio?
GREEN TEA ICE CREAM
SHIORI: She's been talking
about it all morning.
She said you were coming back,
'cause she called you.
Like, five times!
(slurping)
Why five times?
Don't you get it?
She just really wants to see him.
It's so cool that you actually came back!
So cool, Shinpei!
It's not that I'm cool.
Well, I mean, didn't she call me Ajiro?
Ajiro?
(laughs)
So weird!
-She was like, "Shinpei, Shinpei..."
-HAMAJI: She likes you way too much!
-AKARI: You're like a married couple!
-(kids chuckle)
-TOUDAI: Get the green one. It's yummy.
-HAMAJI: Shiori! One more!
-AKARI: Give me one, too!
-SHIORI: Go grab it yourself.
HAMAJI: You don't want one?
SHIORI: They're melted!
61ST HITO SUMMER FESTIVAL
(gentle music)
SHINPEI: Fireworks?
But, look, the festival is on the same day
as Heine's birthday!
Plus, Ushio's birthday is the day after.
HAMAJI: Right! Lots of celebrations!
-SHINPEI: I feel so...
-I wanna eat cake.
-It's not your birthday, dummy!
-...relieved.
GRADE 3-1 SHIORI KOBAYAKAWA
-SHINPEI: Well, I'm off.
-SHIORI: Already?
SHINPEI: It has been a while,
so I thought I'd have a look around.
-SHIORI: Huh? You're like a tourist.
-(Shinpei laughs)
-SHINPEI: Tourist!
-SHIORI: Tourist!
(gentle music)
(wind gusting)
Hito Shrine.
(birds chirping)
(clanking)
-IWAO: Shinpei?
-Uh...
Shinpei Ajiro.
Ka... Karikiri!
IWAO: It really is Shinpei.
Long time no see, Iwao.
IWAO: How long has it been?
Two years.
It's been a while. This is my son.
Do you remember him?
I saw you at the port earlier.
Yamato, right?
That's right!
Impressive, Shinpei.
He came back from the mainland last year,
so I'll let him do the ceremony this year.
He's the next generation.
IWAO: Exactly.
SHINPEI: It's already
that time of year again.
Yes, it really is, it's great to celebrate
another year with no problems.
By the way, Ushio did lose her necklace
while cleaning the beach.
IWAO: Oh, no.
It seemed important,
she's been searching for two days.
YAMATO: She can't find it.
Poor thing.
(wind gusting)
Are you all right, Shinpei?
Would you excuse me?
Of course.
(soft music)
SHINPEI: I can hear the ocean,
no matter where I am on the island.
I felt like that sound
would lead me to her.
(waves crashing)
(soft music)
(gasps)
Shin...
Ajiro! We keep running
into each other today.
You called me "Shinpei" earlier
when you saw me at the port, remember?
Huh? Seriously? Ugh! No way.
USHIO: Are you sure
you heard me right? Dummy.
SHINPEI: I'm sorry.
I left for Tokyo without saying goodbye.
I feel really bad about that.
USHIO: I'm glad.
I'm just glad you're safe.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Ushio.
USHIO: You know what? I had a weird dream.
Two nights ago...
(sniffles)
...I dreamed that I'd never see you again.
(gasps)
I guess it was my punishment
for not seeing you off,
but I... I didn't want for us
to end up separated like this.
I couldn't stop myself from calling you.
(sobs)
Sorry.
No, I... Actually...
-USHIO: Gotcha!
-Oh?
You can't move now.
SHINPEI: I feel like I saw the same dream.
(Shinpei laughs)
Now we're even!
Huh? Whoa!
You... You got me!
(chuckles)
Huh?
Oh!
What is it?
Uh, is this... I think it's your...
USHIO: Oh!
Wow! There it is!
I'm so happy!
I lost it at the beach cleanup
two days ago.
I looked everywhere.
I thought I couldn't face you
if I lost it.
(sighs)
I got so worried, 'cause of that dream.
But it's okay.
I was sad and lonely.
But I'm happy now.
(romantic music)
USHIO: Shinpei. Your hair is so long.
SHINPEI: Yeah.
USHIO: It looks weird.
(cicadas chirping)
61ST HITO SUMMER FESTIVAL
JULY 24TH, 2018
(distant drumbeats)
(background chatter)
DONATION
HITO
TANAKA
BISTRO KOFUNE
SHINPEI: Thank you.
RYUNOSUKE NAGUMO
FESTIVAL PARALLAX
Wow.
Mm.
We saw the same dream
on the same day separately,
and you found out who I was in that dream.
Well, I'm pretty sure that's case. Yeah.
SHINPEI: But neither Ushio nor I
remember the details of the dream.
HIZURU: Foresight? No, memory.
Is it some sort of local memory shared
by the people on this island?
Hm... Feeling of repeating.
Parallel worlds.
Sort of memories of parallel worlds.
SHINPEI: Oh, there was a book I remembered
after that dream.
I just saw it online,
but haven't read it yet.
The Strange Life of Ivan Osokin
by Ouspensky. Right?
SHINPEI: Yeah! That's it!
Hello.
(kids giggling)
Is Heine's birthday party over?
Yes! I am so full.
-Hello, Alain.
-Hey, Ryunosuke.
-(door closes)
-Oh?
(inaudible chatter)
Do Hizuru and Shinpei know each another?
Yeah. Seems like they met on the ferry.
Oh. Thanks.
HEINE: Ah! Hizuru!
(both gasp)
Thanks for the birthday present!
Sure, Heine.
HIZURU: Did everyone come to your party?
Yeah! Tomorrow is Ushio's birthday, too.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
-RYUNOSUKE: Heine, don't interrupt them.
-Uh?
Hey, sorry, Shinpei.
It's okay.
Heine was just thanking me for the gift.
Really, she wasn't interrupting us at all.
Oh yeah?
Mm-hm. Excuse me.
Dad, you shouldn't interrupt them, either.
Oh.
(Ryunosuke chuckles)
(soft music)
HIZURU: Does something interest you
about my niece?
SHINPEI: No. Actually, yes.
(both laughing)
SHINPEI: I'm just glad.
It's odd, isn't it?
I wonder why I feel that way?
Why dost thou pass away
and leave our state?
Dim vast vale of tears,
vacant and desolate?
Uh...
SHINPEI: Uh, that's...
Recognize it?
SHINPEI: No, sorry.
Sis. Don't pick on Shinpei too much.
He's a huge Ryunosuke Nagumo fan.
No wonder he found you, huh?
I am a masked author.
I've never revealed my identity.
I told you,
don't bother me with that, dummy.
Whoa.
HIZURU: You'd better not have told anyone
on the island about me.
Of course not! Isn't she a tough one?
She's working on a new book now,
so she's even worse.
HIZURU: Uh...
But despite all of that,
she's actually really happy to meet a fan.
HIZURU: What are you saying?
Uh, a new book, are you writing it now?
I guess so.
SHINPEI: Wow, that's great.
The Hijiri series, or something else?
Ugh! Why would I tell you?
KISHU SPECIALITY HAYAZUSHI
HIZURU: I'm in Wakayama for research
and rest, but this was unexpected.
Your story is interesting.
I want to hear some more.
(gasps)
Sure!
MIO: Dad. Sis wants to go soon.
Okay! Everything is ready over here.
(gasps)
Oh.
Wel... Welcome.
-(gasps)
-Oh!
What are you standing there for, Mio?
I'm sorry.
Ah! Hizuru and Shinpei. You're here.
(chuckles)
Come, follow me!
-ASAKO: Wait.
-KIDS: Okay!
ASAKO: Before that.
Okay. Get closer together.
-ASAKO: Say "cheese."
-Cheese!
(camera shutter clicks)
(Shiori chuckles)
CROWD (chanting):
Wasshoi! Wasshoi! Wasshoi!
Wasshoi! Wasshoi! Wasshoi!...
SHINPEI: Time has overwritten summer.
And with its passing, I'm relieved,
but also pained and lonely.
(traditional music playing)
So, Shinpei. Did you make up with Ushio?
Huh? Ah... Yeah.
What? Cat got your tongue?
We did.
I see. Glad to hear it.
SHINPEI: I mean...
Hm?
There was nothing to do.
All the tension between us
just disappeared.
SHINPEI: It was a little awkward.
You know what I mean?
I see. That's fine.
No. It's not.
SHINPEI: Huh?
I mean, you two are fine, but I'm not yet.
You're not?
SOU: Shinpei, lend me your strength.
SHINPEI: Strength?
During the fireworks,
stay on the beach with everyone.
I'll take Mio to the shrine grounds.
SHINPEI: Sou.
You still have feelings for Mio?
Is that a problem?
-MIO: What are you talking about?
-Huh?
SOU: Uh, um...
-(both slurping)
-Huh?
You're like two peas in a pod.
-...the best job ever.
-You're exactly right.
(laughing)
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo.
The fireworks will be starting very soon.
(Hizuru chuckles)
HIZURU: Just wait.
The ideas are just flooding in
right now. I can't stop.
Thanks to you, I broke out of my slump!
(cell phone buzzing)
-USHIO: It's me.
-SHINPEI: Hey.
Where are you?
By the food stands.
SHINPEI: I'm heading to the beach now.
USHIO: Oh? Where's everyone?
SHINPEI: Sou and Mio are gonna watch
from the shrine grounds.
USHIO: Hmm, he still wants to tell her
how he feels, huh?
SHINPEI: What? How do you know that?
USHIO: Sou told me himself.
Huh. He wanted me to be at the beach,
so I wouldn't see.
He said the exact same thing to me.
USHIO: He never gives up.
Mio rejected him last year, too,
during the festival.
SHINPEI: Seriously?
(stomach rumbles)
USHIO: Hm, I'm so hungry
after carrying the omikoshi.
Buy me takoyaki.
SHINPEI: Sure.
Come to the end of the levees.
What do you like about me, Sou?
(waves crashing)
SHINPEI: Ushio.
Shinpei. You're so late.
SHINPEI: Here.
USHIO: Yay! Thank you! Oh, wait.
Is that all you got?
What do you mean? How many did you want?
What? But you promised me
takoyaki last time!
I promised? Did I really do that?
Yeah! Remember? When was it...
Ugh! I almost have it.
Oh, back then? When we were
in that narrow space at the old clinic?
Oh.
BOTH: "I promise I'll buy you ten
or a hundred of them."
(fireworks whistling)
(fireworks popping)
Welcome back.
I'm finally home.
SUMMER TIME RENDERING
(Mio humming "Happy Birthday to You")
Mmm. I forgot the sugar.
CROWD: ♪ Happy birthday to you! ♪
(blows air)
USHIO: Thanks, everyone!
SHINPEI: Happy birthday, Ushio!
(overlapping chatter)
(waves crashing)